Skip to content

You signed in with another tab or window. Reload to refresh your session.

You signed out in another tab or window. Reload to refresh your session.

You switched accounts on another tab or window. Reload to refresh your session.

Dismiss alert

{{ message }}

n8n-io

/

n8n

Public

Notifications

You must be signed in to change notification settings

Fork

50.3k

Star

157k

Fair-code workflow automation platform with native AI capabilities. Combine visual building with custom code, self-host or cloud, 400+ integrations.

n8n.io

License

View license

157k

stars

50.3k

forks

Branches

Tags

Activity

Star

Notifications

You must be signed in to change notification settings

n8n-io/n8n

masterBranchesTagsGo to fileCodeOpen more actions menuFolders and filesNameNameLast commit messageLast commit dateLatest commit History16,349 Commits.devcontainer.devcontainer .github.github .vscode.vscode assetsassets docker/imagesdocker/images packagespackages patchespatches scriptsscripts .actrc.actrc .bundlemonrc.json.bundlemonrc.json .dockerignore.dockerignore .editorconfig.editorconfig .git-blame-ignore-revs.git-blame-ignore-revs .gitattributes.gitattributes .gitignore.gitignore .npmignore.npmignore .npmrc.npmrc .prettierignore.prettierignore .prettierrc.js.prettierrc.js CHANGELOG.mdCHANGELOG.md CLAUDE.mdCLAUDE.md CODE_OF_CONDUCT.mdCODE_OF_CONDUCT.md CONTRIBUTING.mdCONTRIBUTING.md CONTRIBUTOR_LICENSE_AGREEMENT.mdCONTRIBUTOR_LICENSE_AGREEMENT.md LICENSE.mdLICENSE.md LICENSE_EE.mdLICENSE_EE.md README.mdREADME.md SECURITY.mdSECURITY.md biome.jsoncbiome.jsonc codecov.ymlcodecov.yml jest.config.jsjest.config.js lefthook.ymllefthook.yml package.jsonpackage.json pnpm-lock.yamlpnpm-lock.yaml pnpm-workspace.yamlpnpm-workspace.yaml renovate.jsonrenovate.json tsconfig.jsontsconfig.json turbo.jsonturbo.json vitest.workspace.tsvitest.workspace.ts View all filesRepository files navigation

n8n - Secure Workflow Automation for Technical Teams

n8n is a workflow automation platform that gives technical teams the flexibility of code with the speed of no-code. With 400+ integrations, native AI capabilities, and a fair-code license, n8n lets you build powerful automations while maintaining full control over your data and deployments.

Key Capabilities

Code When You Need It: Write JavaScript/Python, add npm packages, or use the visual interface

AI-Native Platform: Build AI agent workflows based on LangChain with your own data and models

Full Control: Self-host with our fair-code license or use our cloud offering

Enterprise-Ready: Advanced permissions, SSO, and air-gapped deployments

Active Community: 400+ integrations and 900+ ready-to-use templates

Quick Start

Try n8n instantly with npx (requires Node.js):

npx n8n

Or deploy with Docker:

docker volume create n8n_data

docker run -it --rm --name n8n -p 5678:5678 -v n8n_data:/home/node/.n8n docker.n8n.io/n8nio/n8n

Access the editor at http://localhost:5678

Resources

📚 Documentation

🔧 400+ Integrations

💡 Example Workflows

🤖 AI & LangChain Guide

👥 Community Forum

📖 Community Tutorials

Support

Need help? Our community forum is the place to get support and connect with other users:

community.n8n.io

License

n8n is fair-code distributed under the Sustainable Use License and n8n Enterprise License.

Source Available: Always visible source code

Self-Hostable: Deploy anywhere

Extensible: Add your own nodes and functionality

Enterprise licenses available for additional features and support.

Additional information about the license model can be found in the docs.

Contributing

Found a bug 🐛 or have a feature idea ✨? Check our Contributing Guide to get started.

Join the Team

Want to shape the future of automation? Check out our job posts and join our team!

What does n8n mean?

Short answer: It means "nodemation" and is pronounced as n-eight-n.

Long answer: "I get that question quite often (more often than I expected) so I decided it is probably best to answer it here. While looking for a good name for the project with a free domain I realized very quickly that all the good ones I could think of were already taken. So, in the end, I chose nodemation. 'node-' in the sense that it uses a Node-View and that it uses Node.js and '-mation' for 'automation' which is what the project is supposed to help with. However, I did not like how long the name was and I could not imagine writing something that long every time in the CLI. That is when I then ended up on 'n8n'." - Jan Oberhauser, Founder and CEO, n8n.io

About

Fair-code workflow automation platform with native AI capabilities. Combine visual building with custom code, self-host or cloud, 400+ integrations.

n8n.io

Topics

cli

workflow

integrations

development

automation

typescript

ai

mcp

data-flow

self-hosted

ipaas

apis

workflow-automation

low-code

no-code

integration-framework

n8n

low-code-platform

mcp-server

mcp-client

Resources

Readme

License

View license

Code of conduct

Code of conduct

Contributing

Contributing

Security policy

Security policy

Uh oh!

There was an error while loading. Please reload this page.

Activity

Custom properties

Stars

157k

stars

Watchers

934

watching

Forks

50.3k

forks

Report repository

Releases

433

n8n@1.119.2

Latest

Nov 14, 2025

+ 432 releases

Packages

0

Uh oh!

There was an error while loading. Please reload this page.

Used by 624

+ 616

Contributors

561

+ 547 contributors

Languages

TypeScript

90.7%

Vue

7.8%

SCSS

0.7%

JavaScript

0.4%

Python

0.3%

Handlebars

0.1%

You can’t perform that action at this time.