keyboard_arrow_down

Categories

All Tutorials

WordPress

VPS

Website development

Ecommerce

Hostinger Horizons

How to make a website

search

close

VPS

Oct 17, 2025

Dovydas

5min                      Read

What is n8n? Intro to a workflow automation tool

Summarize with:

ChatGPT

Claude.ai

Google AI

Grok

Perplexity

Share:

Copy link

Copied!

If you’ve ever wished you could automate all the boring, repetitive business, IT, or even personal tasks that span multiple apps but that require no advanced skills, n8n might be exactly what you need.

n8n is a workflow automation tool that lets you schedule tasks and move data between many of the apps, tools, platforms, and services your team uses every day.

In this guide, we’ll break down what n8n is, how it works, and why many people choose it over similar AI automation tools – in particular, you’ll see how it compares to Zapier. We’ll give you some real-world examples alongside pricing and hosting options, so you can decide whether n8n is the right solution for your project or business.

What is n8n?

n8n (pronounced either en-eight-en or nodemation) is an automation tool that lets you create custom workflows. Think of it as a digital assistant that handles repetitive work for you by scheduling tasks, leveraging n8n integrations to connect disparate systems, or automatically moving data between different apps that don’t normally communicate with each other out of the box.

Usually, setting up workflow automation requires in-depth coding knowledge, but that’s where n8n stands out. It provides a visual interface with templates for common workflows so you can save time and focus on productivity without having to develop a custom automation tool.

How does n8n work?

Imagine connecting different apps like puzzle pieces. In n8n, those pieces are called nodes. Each node represents a specific action, such as sending an email, updating a spreadsheet, or fetching data from an application programming interface (API).

When put together, all the nodes form a workflow – a set of actions based on a trigger. Because this is a no-code workflow automation platform, the nodes are configured through a visual interface, making it easy to build workflows without writing custom code.

n8n’s flexibility goes beyond its core features, enabling you to automate everything from simple tasks to complex, multistep workflows. This illustrates what can be automated with n8n across various industries.

There are different types of nodes based on their function. In general, a typical workflow consists of:

Trigger node: This is what starts your workflow run. It could be a new form submission, an email in your inbox, or an event from another app.

Action nodes: These define the logic, specific applications, and actions in your workflow.

Actions can include simple tasks like storing data in a database, sending a notification, or updating a task in your project management app. They can also involve more complex actions like sending HTTP requests, running custom Python or Javascript code, or generating an AI prompt with your own data.

Once you’ve built a workflow, n8n runs each action automatically upon a trigger, ensuring that everything happens in the right order without manual effort.

However, if you don’t feel like building a workflow from scratch, you can explore over 1,250 pre-made workflow templates.

Common n8n use cases

Notifications

One of the most popular n8n use cases is the notification service. Depending on the trigger node type, the n8n workflow can be set up to send a notification to any of the supported applications, acting as a connector between platforms.

For example, you can set it up to inform team members via Slack, email, and/or SMS when a new order is placed on your website.

Data synchronization across platforms

Keeping data consistent between different platforms can be a mundane, repetitive task that wastes valuable time and creates the potential for human error.

This can easily be solved with two-way synchronization in n8n. A possible scenario could be synchronization between your customer relationship management (CRM) platform and your project management software.

Invoice and payment processing

If you own an ecommerce website, n8n can greatly help you with payment processing from your payment provider.

A few examples include payment retries, automated recurring payments, payment status updates, and payment detail verification against fraud detection services. Additionally, a workflow can include additional steps to store the payment information on your system, and to generate and send an invoice to your client via email.

Reporting automation

Weekly meetings can require significant time and effort, especially when you need to remember to prepare a report every time.

In this instance, n8n can help to ensure your reports are ready before each week’s meeting. A workflow can be set up to collect and compile data from various sources, add it to a report template, and then add a document link to the meeting notification.

Web scraping and data collection

Need to gather information from multiple sources? With n8n you can extract data from websites, systems, or applications, structure it, and send it to a database or Google Sheets for easy access.

This is useful for tracking competitors, product prices, or industry insights, as well as capturing insights into your own business, like how it is presented in the media, for example.

Smart home automation

n8n can be used as a home automation system to control various smart home devices or expand the functionality of your existing home network based on your location.

You can create an automated workflow to turn off the lights and reduce the heating when you go out, or to unlock your door when you’ve returned home.

Zapier vs n8n – comparison

When comparing n8n and Zapier, Zapier is a user-friendly workflow automation tool geared toward beginners, whereas n8n provides more flexibility with fewer limitations.

Zapier is a great choice if you want to connect various applications and automate simple manual tasks without a lot of fine-tuning. n8n, on the other hand, is a better choice for people who want more control, advanced customization, and a self-hosting option.

Pros of Zapier:

One of the simplest tools to learn for beginners

Wide variety of supported applications

Cloud-based, so you don’t need to worry about hosting

Cons of Zapier:

Limited customizability for more advanced tasks

Can get expensive with complex workflows

Pros of n8n:

Free to self-host

Allows more advanced custom workflows

Cloud-based option available if you don’t want to care about hosting

Cons of n8n:

It takes more time to learn

Fewer supported applications compared to Zapier

More complex setup if you opt for the self-hosted option

To conclude, if you are looking for a quick and easy solution, choose Zapier. If you need a more powerful and customizable solution, you will likely benefit from choosing n8n instead.

How much does n8n cost?

n8n is free to self-host, so the price depends solely on your hosting solution.

If you opt for the cloud version directly from n8n, it’ll cost you $20/month for the Starter plan – this should be enough for most basic projects. For more complex projects or for team use, the Pro plan costs $50/month.

For those who value customizability and full control, we recommend installing the self-hosted n8n version on a virtual private server (VPS) from Hostinger. The KVM 2 plan at $5.99/month should be enough to get you started. With hPanel, installing n8n with Ubuntu takes just a few clicks.

Important! Resource usage grows as you add more or complex workflows. Make sure your VPS has the correct requirements for your n8n instance, monitor usage in hPanel, and upgrade when needed.

If you’re a bit more tech-savvy, you can try n8n out for free by setting it up on your home computer or a single-board computer such as Raspberry Pi with Node.js or Docker. It’s not as easy as the VPS option, but it can be a great starting point for those who just want to play around with n8n before investing in hosting.

Conclusion

n8n is all about making your life easier. Whether you want to automate notifications, sync data, process payments, or even control smart home devices, it gives you the flexibility to do it all.

If you’re looking for something quick and beginner-friendly, Zapier is still a great option. n8n, however, gives you more power, customization, and the ability to self-host, making it an outstanding player in the automation world.

All of the tutorial content on this website is subject to

Hostinger's rigorous editorial standards and values.

The author

Dovydas

Dovydas has worked in cloud engineering and IT operations, focusing on maintaining and improving complex systems. He’s especially interested in software development and automation and is always looking for ways to make things more efficient and reliable. You can find him on LinkedIn.

More from Dovydas

Related tutorials

28 Oct •

VPS

•

Automation

•

10 best Zapier alternatives to automate your workflows

Zapier is a popular online automation tool that connects your favorite apps, such as Gmail, Slack, and Mailchimp, to automate repetitive tasks without...

By Ariffud Muhammad

21 Oct •

VPS

•

Docker

•

What is Docker Compose, and how to use it

Docker Compose is a tool designed for defining and running multi-container projects. Developers use it to simplify the management of interconnected...

By Aris Sentika

21 Oct •

VPS

•

Docker

•

Docker tutorial: A complete guide to running containers

Docker is an open platform designed to simplify the process of developing, shipping, and running applications. It streamlines software delivery by...

By Aris Sentika

What our customers say

Trustpilot

Leave a reply Cancel replyPlease fill the required fields.Please accept the privacy checkbox.Please fill the required fields and accept the privacy checkbox.

Thank you! Your comment has been successfully submitted. It will be approved within the next 24 hours.